.\" $Id: recollq.1,v 1.1 2007-11-13 10:07:35 dockes Exp $ (C) 2005 J.F.Dockes\$
.TH RECOLLQ 1 "13 November 2007"
.SH NAME
recollq \- command line / standard output Recoll query command.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B recollq
[
.B -c
<configdir>
]
[
.B -o
|
.B -f
|
.B -a
]
[
.B -b
]
[
.B -d
]
[
.B -A
]
[
.B -m
]
[
.B -n
<cnt>
]
[
.B -s
<stemming language>
]
[
.B -S
<fldname>
]
[
.B -D
]
[
.B -i
<additional index directory>
]
<query string>

.B recollq -P

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B recollq
command will execute the Recoll query specified on the command line and
print the results to the standard output.
.PP
The 
.B -c 
option specifies the configuration directory name, overriding the
default or $RECOLL_CONFDIR.
.PP
The query string will be interpreted by default as a query language string.
If
.B -a 
is specified, the query string will be interpreted as an
.I all words
simple search query. If 
.B -o 
is specified, the query string will be interpreted as an
.I any word
simple search query. If 
.B -f
is specified, the query string will be interpreted as a
.I file name
simple search query. 
.PP
.B -b
(basic) can be specified to only print the result urls in the output
stream.
.PP
If 
.B -d
is set, the text for the result files contents will be dumped to stdout.
.PP
If 
.B -m
is set, the whole metadata array will be dumped for each document.
.PP
If 
.B -A
is set, the document abstracts will be printed.
.PP
.B -S
<fieldname>
sorts the results according to the specified field. Use 
.B -D 
for descending order.
.PP
.B -n
<cnt>
can be used to set the maximum number of results that should be printed.
.PP
.B -s
<language>
selects the word stemming language. The value should match an existing
stemming database (as set in the configuration or added with recollindex -s).
.PP
.B -i
<extra dbdir>
adds the specified Xapian index to the set used for the query. Can be
specified multiple times.
.PP
.B recollq -P
(Period) will print the minimum and maximum modification years for
documents in the index.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP 
recollindex(1) recollq(1) recoll.conf(5) 
